---
permalink: /:collection/getting-started-flows-app/
title: "Getting Started with the Flows for APEX App"
toc: true
typora-root-url: ../

---



TODO: This page still needs work
{: .notice--danger}

# Getting Started in the FlowsforAPEX Application

1. Start off in the Flow Management tab.  Select this from the APEX Navigation Menu on the Left.
2. Find the 'Tutorial 1 - Getting Started' model, and then on the row menu select 'Show Details' to see information about the Tutorial 1 process model.
3. Click on Edit Flow Diagram button to open the Modeler.
4. Read the model text.  Use the Properties Panel on the Right Hand Side if you want to see the detailed configurations.
5. If you have edited the model & want to execute it, use the 'Save As New' icon to save your own copy.  This saves the BPMN model as an XML object into the database, and creates a parsed copy of it in the <b><i>Flows for APEX</i></b> tables ready for execution.
6. Go to the Flow Monitor tab using the APEX Navigation Menu on the Left.
7. From the Flow Monitor, click the '+ Create a New Instance' button (Top Right), select your process from the pull-down menu, and give the process instance some name.
8. In the Flow Control region, view Flow Instances table, you'll see that your process is now listed.
9. Click the Start item from the row menu to start executing the process flow.  Notice a copy of your process diagram in the Flow Monitor region at. the bottom of your screen.
10. Use the Details quick action to show the Instance details.
11. In the Flow Control region, now select the Subflows tab.  You will see the execution subflows within your process instance.  Use the 'Complete' button to move the process forward to the next process state.  Notice the progress of your flow in the Flow Monitor.  The Current Task(s) are shown in Green, completed tasks are shaded Grey.
12. Step through your Model until it completes.  Note then that there are no subflows still running.

If you wish to re-run the model, you can return to the Flow Instances tab, and click the 'Reset' button to restart your process.  Note that this is not something you would do with a production process - you'd run a new instance of the process -  but it's useful as you learn how <i><b>Flows for APEX</b></i> works.

#### Next Steps

Now you've got the basics of how to build a process model using BPMN for <b><i>Flows for APEX</i></b>, take a look at our sample application "Expense Claims".  This uses an example business process of how a company might handle expense claims submitted by their employees.
The sample app is part of the software distribution and can be installed by importing the app. A shared cloud version of the app is available [here](https://flowsforapex.com/preview/demo){:target="_blank"}.