---
permalink: /:collection/apex-simple-form/
title: "Configuring APEX Simple Forms"
toc: true
typora-root-url: ../

---

# Configure an APEX Simple Form <span class="bpmn-icon bpmn-icon-user-task"></span>

This section covers how to configure the APEX Simple Form as a BPMN User Task.

## Topics

BPMN Configuration

APEX Configuration

Note about Task Ownership, Logging, etc.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Kpt_2SiZUoE?si=Cw0vNHMlzEvgTRSc" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

TODO: This page still needs work
{: .notice--danger}



### Setting up an APEX Simple Form UserTask

APEX Simple Form User Tasks provide a way to integrate user input into your process models without the need to build the associated APEX form pages.

This functionality is provided by utilizing the JSON region plug-in (oracle-apex-json-region) by Uwe Simon [[Github Link ](https://github.com/simonuwe/oracle-apex-json-region)] which generates form pages based on a defined JSON syntax that can be easily shared and reused.

To create and manage form templates use the new page in the Flows for APEX engine app called Simple Form Templates. After defining the templates here you can use them in the modeler when working on process models.

<Screenshot Simple Form Templates Page?>

#### Task Type

Add a user task into your BPMN diagram by adding a task ( the <span class="bpmn-icon bpmn-icon-task-none"></span> symbol).  Then, using the spanner tool <span class="bpmn-icon bpmn-icon-screw-wrench"></span>, convert the task to a User Task ( <span class="bpmn-icon bpmn-icon-user-task"></span> ).  

**Name**. On the Modeler properties panel, in the General section , give your task a descriptive name.

**ID**.  By default, this generates a random name like ''Activity_0d5gtyh".  You can change this to something more descriptive, but it should be short and not contain any spaces.

**Task Type** should be set to APEX Simple Form

(Screenshot Task Type Attribute)

#### APEX Simple Form

The settings for an APEX Simple Form User Task are similar to the APEX Page configuration. You can think of it as a special case of an APEX Page task with specific attributes that are needed to drive the JSON region plugin.

The easiest way to start with the Simple Form User Tasks is by installing the Process Starter App from the Flows for APEX 24.1 distribution folder. This application is intended to provide a central entry point for users to start available processes and work on tasks by  retaining a generic approach that can be used with multiple process models.

The Process Starter App’s page 7 is already containing a pre-configured JSON region plug-in that can be used with Simple Form User Tasks.

After installing the app, select Application and Page in the dropdown lists and generate all needed application item settings by pressing the green  *Generate default items* . In addition, you need to specify which form template you want to use for this task after you defined it in the Flows for APEX app (see above). You also need to specify the page item which will contain the reference to that template, so the engine can generate the proper link to the form page for you.

(Screenshot Simple Form Attributes)

When using the Process Starter App, select the page item *FORM_TEMPLATE_ITEM* here.

If you run this process model now, the Simple Form User Task will point to the form page in the Process Starter app showing the defined fields. All data entered there will be stored in a universal table as JSON objects. If you want to add model-related processing, you can start by
integrating the JSON-region plug-in from the Process Starter App in your own application and configure it likewise.

#### Task Assignment

Be sure to set up the assignment parameters on the task if you want the user task to be clickable inside the viewer for eligible users.