---
permalink: /:collection/bpmn-tutorials/
type: latest
title: "BPMN Tutorials"
toc: true
typora-root-url: ../
---
## Flows for APEX BPMN Tutorials

We've created a series of short tutorials to take developers through the basics of creating and running a business process model in BPMN, using the <b><i>Flows for APEX</i></b> Flow Modeler and Flow Monitor.

If you work through this series of quick tutorials, you'll be able to use <b><i>Flows for APEX</i></b> to model your business processes, and then execute processes in APEX.
Each tutorial is a Flows for APEX model that explains how it runs and how it is constructed.

If you are already familiar with how BPMN works in Flows for APEX, but want to see what changed in recent versions, see the BPMN  tutorials for upgraders page. {: .notice--tip}

### The Tutorials

* Tutorial 1 - Getting Started
* Tutorial 2 - Process Control and Gateways
  * Tutorial 2a - Basic Navigation with Gateways
  * Tutorial 2b - Parallel Gateways - how to create sections of your process that execute in parallel
  * Tutorial 2c - Inclusive Gateways - but not always all of the parallel sections...
  * Tutorial 2d - Adding Pauses and Waits
* Tutorial 3 - Process Variables
  * Tutorial 3a - Using Variable Expressions to set Process Variables from your Model🆕
  * Tutorial 3b - Substitution & Bind Syntax
* Tutorial 4 - Tasks Get your Work Done
  * Tutorial 4a - Task Types  - How to call APEX pages, scripts, and send emails in your process
  * Tutorial 4b - Reminders and Timeouts
  * Tutorial 4c - Task Priority and Due Dates
  * Tutorial 4d - Using an AI Service Task 🆕
* Tutorial 5 - SubProcesses and Call Activities
  * Tutorial 5a - Structure your Processes with SubProcesses and Call Activities
  * Tutorial 5b - Introducing Sub Processes
  * Tutorial 5c - Handling Sub Process Errors and Escalations
  * Tutorial 5d - Introducing Call Activities to call other diagrams
  * Tutorial 5e - Ship Goods (Called by Tutorial 5d)
  * Tutorial 5f - Making your Diagram Callable.
  
* Tutorial 6 - Collaborations, Lanes and Reservations - modeling who does what
  * Tutorial 6a - Collaborations, Lanes and Reservations
  * Tutorial 6b - Lanes and More Lanes
  * Tutorial 6c - User Assignment - Putting it all Together
* Tutorial 7 - Advanced Topics 
  * Tutorial 7a - MessageFlow Basics 
  * Tutorial 7b - Inter Process Collaborations and MessageFlow Example 
  * Tutorial 7e - Introduction to Iterations and Looping Tasks 
  * Tutorial 7f - Iterations and Looped Sub Processes 
  * Tutorial 7g - Iterations and Looped Nested Sub Processes 
* Tutorial 8 - Advanced Topics
  * Tutorial 8a - Everything you can do with Flows for APEX (we call this "The Full Monty") - The top half!🆕
  * Tutorial 8c - Background Session Configuration 

Each tutorial is a Flows for APEX model that explains how it runs and how it is constructed.  You can open each model in the Process Modeler, to see how it has been configured.  You can modify and save your own copy of the model if you want to experiment.  And you can execute the model using the Flow Monitor, stepping through the model, step by step.

### Installing the Tutorials

If you are running the tutorials on your own system, you might need to run the tutorial installation script first to install the tutorials.  Look in the distribution files for `\bpmn_tutorials\install_tutorials.sql`, which can be run from SQLDeveloper, SQLcl, etc.

