---
permalink: /:collection/concepts-and-features/
title: "Flows for APEX Concepts and Features"
toc: true
typora-root-url: ../

---

# Concepts and Features Guide

This section covers some of the key the concepts and features of Flows for APEX.

## Topics

### Key Concepts

- [About Subflows](/{{page.collection}}/about-subflows/) - how we track where we are in the process...
- [Transaction Model](/{{page.collection}}/transaction-model/) - describes how Flows for APEX implements transactional control of workflow execution
- [Model Versioning](/{{page.collection}}/model-versioning/) - process definitions are versioned, allowing processes to evolve while process instances continue running.

### Process Variables

- [Process Variables](/{{page.collection}}/process-variable/) - explains the process variable system

- [Variable Expressions](/{{page.collection}}/variable-expression/) - essentially "triggers" that fire before and after each process step.

- [Variable Scoping](/{{page.collection}}/variable-scoping/) - once your processes become complex, we use scoping to keep different variables with the same name separate.

### Message Flow, Process Collaboration,  and Inter Process Communication

- [Introduction to BPMN Message Flow and Process Collaboration](/{{page.collection}}/messageflow-intro/) - introduces process collaboration

- [Message Flow Concepts](/{{page.collection}}/about-messageflow/) How Message Flow works.

- [Message Flow - Message Design](/{{page.collection}}/messageflow-messages/) An example of how to design your message flow messages.

### BPMN Iterations and Loops

- [About Iterations and Loops](/{{page.collection}}/iteration-loop-intro/) Introduced multi-instantiated activities and loops. (An Enterprise Edition Feature).

- [Iterations and Loop Concepts](/{{page.collection}}/iteration-loop-concepts/) - explains how BPMN iterations and loops can be used in Flows for APEX

### About Time and Timers

- [Timestamps and Timezones](/{{page.collection}}/timestamps-and-timezones/)  Today's business processes typically involve users in multiple timezones.  Some guidance...

- [About Timers and Scheduling](/{{page.collection}}/about-timer-execution). details the process timer and scheduling system used to implement timers for reminders, delays, and time out periods.

